---
layout: post
title: "Perl CheatSheet 5"
date: 2014-08-30 02:57:15 +1000
comments: true
header-img: "img/post-bg-05.jpg"
categories:  [perl]
---

### List and Array

#### List

- init. one element in list. `$fred[0] = "do";`
- maximum element index: `$index = $#fred`
- last value of list: `$last = $fred[$#fred]` or `$last = $fred[-1]`
- out-of-bound subscripts return undef, print nothing
- assigning beyond `$#list`, just stretches the list, filling the middle element with `undefined`. e.g. `$fred[20] = hello`, then $fred[1…19] is there, but undefined

<!--more-->

-------------

- list e.g. : `(1,2,3)` or `("fred", 4.5)` or `(1..10)`
- e.g. `@ar = (1,2,3,4) @ar[1..3] == 4` is true, because @ar[1..3] in this context, only return 4 which is 4 == 4
- tips: `qw|i am a idoit|` quote each element with `" "`, so you don't need to manually type all quotes.
- `$"` list separator, e.g. `$" = "++", print @ar;` will print something like aa++bb++cc++dd


--------------

- assignment of list: `($a, $b) = ("a", 2)`
	- list built up before assignment, swap made easy: `($a, $b) = ($b, $a)`	 
- `@`: all of the. `@rock = qw(rock1 rock2)`
- `@` can be nested. `@rock_more = ("diamond", @rock, "go");`
- remove end of array [**has side effect**]: `$final = pop @num;`
- append to end of array [**has side effect**]: `push @num, 10..15`
- remove from beginning [**has side effect**]: `$first = shift @num;`
- `reverse` and `sort` [**create copy**]

------------


#### Perl's Default Scalar: `$_`

- designer's choice, programmers don't need to think about var name and type.
- omit control var from beginning of loop, perl uses `$_` as default control var.
- `for (1..10) { $_ += 10; }`
- `$_ = "perl ruby python"; print`, will print perl ruby python
- `$_` is by default a global variable. However, as of perl v5.10.0, you can use a lexical version of $_ by declaring it in a file or in a block with `my`

#### Scalar, List Context

- designer's choice: *you can't identify the meaning of expression until you know the **context***
- e.g. `@people = qw(me mum); @list = @people` list here is list, `#num = @people` the number of people, 2
- e.g. `123 + sth` is scalar context, because `+` is for scalar !
- e.g. `print @ar."\n"`: is scalar context, print size of array
- e.g. scalar (@ar) is scalar context, print size of array
- in a nutshell, if you see some operators belonging to list, then its list context, otherwise, its scalar context.

---------


#### loop

- `for $item (@rock = qw(java ruby python)) { $item .= " lang" }`
	- `$item` automatically become `my` var. any outer `$item` is unaffected
	- `$item` as pointer, assigning to `$item` affects the `@rock`
	- `for (@rock) { $_ = "hard $_" }`
	- `" "` evaluates all symbols in it, `' '` just treats as literal string
